User documentation (#115)
fulfillmenttools/fulfillmenttools-api-reference: doc/users/users.adoc

== Users

> There is a simple yet effective rights & permission system present in the fulfillmenttools platform. It hides data from users, that are authenticated but not authorized to view data or to use features in the API, backoffice or mobile clients that they are not allowed to use.

Author: ```suggestion
In the fulfillmenttools platform there is a simple yet effective rights & permission system in place. It hides data from users, that are authenticated but not authorized to view data or it disables to use features in API, backoffice or mobile clients.
```

== Users

In the fulfillmenttools platform there is a simple yet effective rights & permission system in place. It hides data from users, that are authenticated but not authorized to view data or it disables to use features in API, backoffice or mobile clients.

=== Roles and permissions

There is a fixed set of roles a user can possess within the platform. Currently the system knows the following roles:

[[bookmark-roles_table]]
.Available Roles in fulfillmenttools
|===
|Role |Facility affiliation

|FULFILLER
|yes

|SUPERVISOR
|yes

|ADMINISTRATOR
|no

|===

A user always has to possess a known role in order to interact with the clients or via the API.
This information is issued to the Identity-Provider and will be reflected in the next JWT, that is issued to the user.

TIP: Only information that comes within the signed JWT token is considered for authorization in the platform. That also means, that for example

> a role change can take *up to 60 minutes* for a user to become visible, because already issued JWT Tokens still remain valid

Author: ```suggestion
a role change can take *up to 60 minutes* for a user to become visible, because already issued JWT Tokens still remain valid.
```

|===

A user always has to possess a known role in order to interact with the clients or via the API.
This information is issued to the Identity-Provider and will be reflected in the next JWT, that is issued to the user.

TIP: Only information that comes within the signed JWT token is considered for authorization in the platform. That also means, that for example

> a role change can take *up to 60 minutes* for a user to become visible, because already issued JWT Tokens still remain valid

Reviewer: . missing at the end
